Title: LiveSim: Simulating Environment-Shaped Users in Multi-Agent Live-Stream Ecosystems

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.26849v1

Published Time: Fri, 28 Aug 2026 00:56:24 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
# LiveSim: Simulating Environment-Shaped Users in Multi-Agent Live-Stream Ecosystems 

Jiaqi Xu 1*† , Yiran Qiao 1†, Jing Chen 2, Qiwei Zhong 2, Xiang Ao 1‡, Xueqi Cheng 1

1 University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China 

2 ByteDance China {jiaqxv, yrqiao}@gmail.com {yilan.chan, huafeng.hf}@bytedance.com {aoxiang, chengxueqi}@ict.ac.cn 

Abstract 

User behavior simulation with large language models (LLMs) is increasingly used to sup-port multi-agent ecosystem simulation. Ex-isting simulators typically rely on static user profiles inferred from historical observations, which become inadequate in socially intensive environments such as live streaming where in-teraction dynamics continuously reshape user behavior. We propose LiveSim , an LLM-based framework for live-stream ecosystem simulation. It represents users as editable be-havioral hypotheses and progressively refines them through trajectory-grounded interactions, where discrepancies between simulated and ob-served trajectories reveal missing environmen-tal shaping effects. These signals are further extracted as transferable environment-behavior patterns and accumulated in a collective behav-ioral memory to improve user-level behavioral fidelity and support ecosystem-level simula-tion. Experiments on real-world live-stream risk-control data validate the effectiveness of LiveSim in improving user-level behavioral fi-delity and enabling ecosystem-level analysis of risk evolution and platform intervention effects. 

1 Introduction 

Large language models (LLMs) have enabled in-creasingly sophisticated simulations of human be-havior, from individual decision-making (Duan et al., 2026; Bougie and Watanabe, 2025) to multi-agent social ecosystems (Park et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2024; Mou et al., 2024b; Huang et al., 2026). Existing user simulators (Bougie and Watanabe, 2025; Wang et al., 2025b; Zhu et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025a; Dai et al., 2025) typically focus on modeling user behaviors under interaction environ-ments using predefined user descriptions. However, they place less emphasis on explicitly modeling 

> *

Work was conducted during the internship at ByteDance. 

> †

Jiaqi Xu and Yiran Qiao contributed equally to this work. 

> ‡

Xiang Ao is the corresponding author. Target Viewer John               

> (Intro) Let’s talk about investment…
> Streamer Viewers ✖50
> ✖2
> Live-stream Interaction Environment
> Viewer Social Signals
> 👏 👏
> 3000 dollars earned Looks trustworthy! Opportunity Cues Trust-building Cues
> 4 days, 3 limit-ups, 30% gains!
> Pro team guidance! DM for details.
> Count me in!
> ✖200
> ✖NWatching like Any past performance? follow
> 😐 Skeptical 🤔 🤩 😍 Interest Desire Trust
> Step 2 Time progressing Step 1 Step 4 Step 3
> 4 days, 3 limit-ups, 30% gains!
> 4 days, 3 limit-ups, 30% gains!

Figure 1: In our live-stream setting, users correspond to viewers whose behaviors are shaped by interaction envi-ronments, including streamer persuasion, viewer social signals, and evolving live-stream session dynamics. 

environment-driven behavioral dynamics. While effective in relatively stable settings such as virtual societies and social networks (Park et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2024; Mou et al., 2024b; Tang et al., 2025), this paradigm fundamentally breaks down in socially intensive environments. For example, in live streaming, streamer persuasion, real-time viewer feedback, and evolving session dynamics continuously reshape user behavioral tendencies within a single session (c.f. Figure 1). This creates a core challenge: even for users with sufficient interaction history, historical logs provide only sparse snapshots of past actions, capturing what users eventually did but not how their behav-iors formed under interaction. As a result, user characterizations inferred from history are inher-ently underspecified, i.e., insufficient to determine how users respond to unseen interaction conditions. We therefore reconceptualize user characteristics as editable behavioral hypotheses : provisional assumptions inferred from available evidence, sub-ject to revision as interactions unfold. Under this view, simulation becomes a process of progressively shaping behavioral hypotheses rather than repeatedly sampling actions from fixed user profiles. Discrepancies between simulated and observed trajectories are not merely errors to minimize. They are diagnostic signals revealing arXiv:2608.26849v1 [cs.AI] 27 Aug 2026 where current hypotheses fail to capture how envi-ronments reshape users. While adapting hypothe-ses from isolated trajectory failures risks instability, as individual trajectories are tightly coupled to spe-cific session contexts. We observe that recurring interaction conditions tend to influence users in consistent ways, motivating the extraction of trans-ferable environment–behavior shaping patterns 

that generalize across users and sessions. To address these challenges, we propose 

LiveSim , an LLM-based framework for hierarchi-cal simulation in live-stream ecosystems. LiveSim requires only these lightweight interaction logs and coarse user or session metadata. LiveSim first op-erates at the user level by initializing users from behavioral hypotheses inferred from sparse his-tories and progressively shaping the hypotheses through trajectory-grounded interactions. When behavioral hypotheses fail to explain observed tra-jectories, LiveSim employs LLM-based reflection to extract environment–behavior patterns describ-ing how specific interaction conditions reshape user states and behavioral tendencies. These shaping patterns are accumulated into a collective behav-ioral memory and reused across users as trans-ferable behavioral priors. Built upon improved user-level behavioral fidelity, LiveSim further de-ploys shaped user agents into closed-loop multi-agent ecosystems for studying interaction dynam-ics and platform interventions. Experiments on real-world live-stream risk-control data from a ma-jor platform demonstrate that LiveSim substantially improves behavioral fidelity at the user level and improves ecosystem-level simulation quality for studying platform interventions, validating both the hypothesis-shaping paradigm and its utility for ecosystem-level analysis. From a broader perspective within live-stream ecosystems, achieving individual-level behavioral fidelity is not an end in itself, but rather the corner-stone for building a trustworthy, reliable, and con-trollable ecosystem-level simulation. By bridging the gap between micro-level psychological shifts and macro-level system safety, LiveSim provides a high-fidelity sandbox for proactively prototyp-ing platform interventions and testing risk-control strategies. By precisely capturing how dynamic in-teraction environments reshape user responses, we can robustly evaluate the emergent derivative risks within live sessions, as well as the true efficacy of protective countermeasures. 

2 LiveSim Framework 

2.1 Framework Overview LiveSim realizes the editable-hypothesis view at two hierarchical levels, as shown in Figure 2. 

Individual level: Reflective Behavioral Hy-pothesis Shaping (§2.2). For each user, LiveSim starts from an initial behavioral hypothesis inferred from sparse history, then exposes it to live-stream session signals to surface where the hypothesis fails to explain observed behavior. A reflective shap-ing loop turns these mismatches into environment-conditioned behavioral updates that evolve the hy-pothesis without rewriting the user’s underlying identity. Effective shaping patterns are further ac-cumulated into a collective memory and reused as transferable priors for subsequent users. 

Ecosystem level: Closed-loop multi-agent sim-ulation (§2.3). The evolved user agents are then deployed into a closed-loop livestream session together with a streamer agent and shill agents, all interacting through a shared session context. Individual-level fidelity propagates into session-level dynamics, enabling controlled study of fraud evolution under varying shill compositions as well as the effectiveness of platform interventions. 

2.2 Reflective Behavioral Hypothesis Shaping 

Rather than treating simulation mismatches as fail-ures, we view them as supervision. Building on this view, we design Reflective Behavioral Hypothesis Shaping (RBHS) , a three-stage process that con-verts these mismatches into effective environment– behavior patches to improve individual behavioral fidelity in simulation. 

2.2.1 Initial Behavioral Hypothesis 

For each user u, an initial behavioral hypothesis P 0

> u

is inferred from sparse historical evidence, includ-ing lightweight user metadata, previously visited sessions, past actions, and comment content. We organize the inferred attributes into three groups: identity cues extracted from the user’s nickname and signature; interest preferences derived from recurring session categories and interaction habits; and risk-relevant tendencies such as skepticism to-ward exaggerated claims or willingness to follow a streamer. Full inference details are deferred to Appendix A.2. 

2.2.2 Probe Mismatch 

While P 0 

> u

provides an initial prior over the user, it describes who u tends to be but not how u’s behav-Individual: Reflective Behavioral Hypothesis Shaping 

(a) Profile Initialization 

(c) Behavioral Shaping Loop 

Ecosystem: Multi-Agent Livestream Simulation 

(d) Closed-loop Simulation (b) Probe Mismatch   

> User Profile
> History Sessions visited
> Interaction : 70%
> comment + 25% like
> Signature: Enjoy life
> Conv Tendency: Easy
> Name :Alice
> Age :30-40
> Interactions in sessions
> …
> Behavioral Memory

Shared Session Context 

> Evolved User Agents

…  

> User 1 User 2 User N
> Earn Money at Home.
> Streamer
> Agent
> Shill Agents
> instruct
> Mismatch
> Evidence
> Predicted Behavior
> Observed Behavior
> Live-stream Environment

…          

> Shill 1 Shill K
> Streamer
> cues Viewer
> interactions Trajectory
> before
> . . . . . . . . . …N
> Streamer utterance comments gifts follows
> Room
> Description
> Time
> Progressing
> Viewers
> Count
> Likes
> Count
> Fraud Evolution Platform Intervention
> collude User-specific
> Collective
> Mismatch:
> Environment signal
> not yet captured
> Mismatch Solved:
> Environment signal captured due to patches
> Mismatch-aware Reflection
> Existing Env-Behavioral Patches
> 𝑃 𝑢 0
> Δ𝑢
> [Reflection 1] Trigger should not be too generic: social-proof count alone does not explain why this specific user would commit to joining.
> WHEN repeated social proof in A topic
> session
> WHEN low-earning claim appear in
> B topic session
> THEN desire
> THEN interest
> WHEN value of group articulated , with
> ≥1 viewer endorses in …THEN desire

Figure 2: Overview of LiveSim. (Left) Individual-level RBHS : an initial hypothesis P 0 

> u

is iteratively shaped by mismatch evidence into environment–behavior patches, with reflections accumulated as a Behavioral Memory for transfer. (Right) Ecosystem-level Multi-Agent Simulation : evolved user agents interact with streamer and shill agents in a closed-loop session for studying fraud evolution and platform intervention. 

ior is shaped by environmental stimuli, e.g., which streamer cues build trust, or which signals invite skepticism. A natural way to expose such gaps would be to simulate u over the full historical tra-jectory under the current hypothesis and compare the simulated actions with the real ones. This is impractical because live-stream session simulation is strictly serial. Specifically, each step depends on the updated state and memory from previous steps, so repeated full-trajectory simulation scales prohibitively with trajectory length. We therefore use behavioral probes : rich-context one-step prediction windows extracted from the historical trajectory. For a target step, the probe gives the LLM the current session stim-ulus together with sampled history from the same trajectory, including streamer utterances, salient session signals, audience comments, and the user’s earlier actions. The probe then asks for a single next action under Pu. The sampled context serves as a proxy for the state trajectory that step-by-step simulation would produce, letting one-step probes approximate full rollouts without simulating ev-ery intermediate step. Many probe points can be batched into one LLM call to yield dense (pre-dicted, observed) pairs. A mismatch is recorded when the probed ac-tion diverges from the observed action at the same step, and is summarized as a short mismatch signa-ture , e.g., predicting a like where u commented, or missing a follow after sustained social proof, etc. Downstream shaping consumes the signature rather than the raw error. This localizes the environmen-tal condition that the current Pu fails to explain, turning each disagreement into a targeted cue for environment–behavior patching. 

2.2.3 Behavioral Shaping Loop 

After mismatch signatures are generated, a Behav-ioral Hypothesis Update Module reads discrep-ancies as a diagnostic question: what is missing from Pu that would have produced the observed action under this context? Answers are viewed as environment-behavior patches ∆u as follows. 

Environment-behavior patch. Each patch cap-tures a single environment-triggered dynamic: A specific session condition should have shifted u’s latent state, which in turn would have reshaped ac-tion propensity. It is written in a W HEN –T HEN 

schema that pairs the localized trigger with the cor-responding state shift. This form rests on a simple observation: surface actions are noisy realizations of a more stable internal state, so patching how the environment shifts state is more transferable than patching individual actions. All generated patches are concise natural-language statements that augment P 0

u , and are hon-ored as priors in subsequent probes. Formally, RBHS evolves an initial hypothesis P 0

u into ˜Pu =

P 0

u ⊕ ∆u, where ∆u is an additive patch set accu-mulated from mismatch-driven shaping. Reflection-driven shaping loop. A single round of patching is rarely reliable: patches may mis-fire, over-strengthen a state dimension, or fail to improve alignment. RBHS therefore re-probes u

under the patched hypothesis P 0 

> u

⊕ ∆u and asks the agent, at each probe step, to attribute its de-cision to the specific patches it relied on. Each probe yields a binary HIT score, and we sum-marize the change before and after patching as 

∆HIT ∈ {− 1, 0, +1 }. For every patch we then count its associated probes: nimproved , ndegraded ,and nstill -failing (probes whose HIT stays at 0). A patch is labelled effective when nimproved > 0

and ndegraded = 0 , regressive when ndegraded >

0, and neutral otherwise; neutral patches with 

nstill -failing > 0 are also routed to bad evidence, since they fail to recover the user’s behavior under the triggering context. Effective, regressive, and still-failing-bearing neutral patches, together with their probe contexts and predicted-versus-observed actions, are passed in a single LLM call that sum-marizes a compact set of reflections : good reflec-tions describe the user behavior pattern that ef-fective patches captured, while bad reflections de-scribe the pattern that should be avoided. These reflections guide the next patch generation round, where every newly written patch carries a marker 

new or replace with related patch ids, so that new patches are added as additional active rules or used to retire ineffective ones; non-replaced patches stay alive by default. The updated P 0 

> u

⊕ ∆u is then re-probed. For each user the loop runs on a fixed schedule of three rounds, balancing cost and the depth needed to converge on concise patches. 

Collective Behavioral Memory. The reflection loop above presupposes prior rounds; a new user’s first round has none. We bridge this cold start with a Collective Behavioral Memory M of global reflections that capture recurring shaping trends rather than user-specific feedback, accumulated by the same Good/Bad summarization as user-level reflections but with evidence pooled across users. In each global round, a learner subset runs patch generation under the current M (empty in round 

1), and the resulting patches are scored by the same effective / regressive / neutral verdict. To sum-marize the most reusable pattern, We then pass the top 16 effective patches by nimproved , the top 

16 regressive or still-failing-bearing patches by 

ndegraded + nstill -failing , their probe contexts, and the current M to a single LLM call that emits the next batch of reflections. A new reflection iden-tical to an existing one refreshes that entry as a strengthening signal; otherwise it is appended, and once M exceeds its budget of 6, the oldest never-strengthened entries are retired first. Pooling runs on a learner subset of size 0.2 · |U| for 4 rounds. At application time, a lightweight relevance gate makes one LLM call to admit the entries fitting the target user’s P 0 

> u

and probe evidence, which then seeds first-round patch generation toward effective patterns and away from known failure modes. 

2.3 Closed-loop Multi-Agent Simulation 

RBHS produces, for each user u, a shaped hypoth-esis ˜Pu = P 0 

> u

⊕ ∆u that captures both who u tends to be and how u’s behavior is shaped by environ-mental stimuli. We now place these shaped agents back into a live-stream session and let them, to-gether with a streamer agent, generate the session interaction step by step. 

Session Composition. A simulated session re-plays the membership of a real historical session: the audience consists of the exact set of users who attended that session, each instantiated as an evolved agent carrying its own ˜Pu. The streamer is driven by a hypothesis Pstr summarized from real streamer behavior on the platform and held fixed throughout simulation; unlike audience agents, the streamer is not subject to RBHS, since our focus is on how environments shape viewers , and a stable streamer keeps the session-side condition control-lable for downstream analysis. 

Per-Step Dynamics. Each audience agent chooses from six actions: LIKE , COMMENT , GIFT ,

> FOLLOW

,PRIVATE -MESSAGE , and JOIN -GROUP ; 

> COMMENT

additionally carries free-form text generated by the LLM. At step t, let ct denote the session context aggregating recent streamer utterances, salient session signals, and audience activity produced up to step t. For each au-dience agent u, we maintain a cognitive state 

sut ∈ {interest , trust , desire , fatigue } and an interaction memory Hut recording u’s own past actions together with the session signals u has observed. Conditioned on the shaped hypothesis, the current state, and memory, the agent jointly produces a next action and an updated state in a single LLM call: 

(aut , s ut+1 ) ∼ πΘ



ct, ˜Pu, s ut , Hut



,

Hut+1 ← Update( Hut , c t, a ut ).Coupling action and state in one decoding step lets the hypothesis act on the latent state directly, rather than first committing to an action and then back-rationalizing the state. The streamer agent follows the same template under Pstr , but without an evolving cognitive state: its next utterance is produced from πΘ(ct, P str , Hstr  

> t

).

Closing the Loop. Audience actions and streamer utterances at step t are committed to the session context ct+1 , which the next step ex-poses back to every agent. Through this shared context, one viewer’s comment can shift another viewer’s trust, and a streamer’s persuasion attempt can propagate through audience reactions before circling back as new pressure on the streamer. ses-sion dynamics emerge from agent–agent and agent– streamer coupling rather than being prescribed. 

3 Experiments 

3.1 Experimental Setup Datasets. We construct the simulation dataset from live-stream logs of a major platform span-ning 01/09/2025–31/03/2026. Each instance cor-responds to a single session and consists of the session metadata, the visible session context, and the user’s action at each step. In total, the dataset covers 1,963 users and 14,391 user-session pairs. We split the sessions into two parts: 11,267 pairs are used as historical data for hypothesis initial-ization and the shaping loop, and the remaining 3,124 pairs are held out as the test set for trajectory-grounded evaluation. Like other simulation and user-modeling work, LiveSim aims to approximate real users who have enough interaction history to be simulated; users without historical logs are there-fore outside the scope of this work. Further de-tails on dataset construction are provided in Ap-pendix A.1. 

Evaluation Protocols. We evaluate LiveSim un-der two protocols targeting individual-level fidelity and ecosystem-level dynamics. 

Trajectory-grounded protocol. This protocol asks whether the evolved behavioral hypothesis faithfully reproduces u’s observed trajectory step by step. For each test session, the streamer, the surrounding audience, and the session context are pinned to their real historical values, and only the target user u is replaced by a simulated agent driven by ˜Pu. At each step, the agent predicts a next action 

ˆaut based on the real context; then the grounded ac-tion a∗ 

> t

rather than the predicted ˆaut is written back into Hut+1 and used to drive the state update. This teacher-forced design places the agent in the same decision situation that the real user faced at ev-ery step, so that the test reflects how faithfully ˜Pu

would have acted in the actual session. Appendix B.3 further discusses its validity. 

Closed-loop protocol. This protocol follows the setup in Section 2.3 exactly: the streamer and the evolved target viewers are simulated jointly, and their reactions together compose the shared session context. It evaluates session-level dynamics that emerge from agent–agent coupling and supports controlled counterfactuals over streamer strategies and platform interventions. 

Metrics. We evaluate simulation quality from two complementary views. Objective metrics cover both micro- and macro-level alignment. At the mi-cro level, HIT measures step-wise exact-match rate between simulated and real actions; A-JSD 

measures Jensen–Shannon divergence between the simulated and real per-user action distributions; 

Tr-JSD measures the same divergence over action transitions. At the macro level, Conv-Acc and 

Conv-F1 evaluate whether the simulator correctly reproduces progression toward high-risk engage-ment behaviors (e.g., following, private messaging, and joining private groups), which we refer to as 

conversion . Conv-F1 reports the F1 over these con-version signals. Subjective metrics are scored by an LLM judge on a continuous 0–100 scale, which is necessary because live-stream session actions are highly synonymous in surface form (e.g., a comment “1” is functionally a like) and cannot be captured by exact-match alone. Align measures how well the simulated trace matches the real trace, 

Consist measures internal coherence of the simu-lated trace, and Plaus measures whether the agent reads as a real human rather than a robot. Full definitions and scoring details are provided in Ap-pendix A.4. 

3.2 Overall Performance 

We conduct the main experiment under the trajectory-grounded protocol on eight raw back-bones spanning open-source (Qwen2.5, Deepseek) and proprietary (GPT, Doubao) families, and apply RBHS to the two Doubao variants. Table 1 reports behavioral fidelity along Micro, Macro, and LLM-Judge axes, from which we draw four observations. 

HIT alone is a misleading signal of behavioral Table 1: Overall performance of LiveSim across different backbones, evaluated under the trajectory-grounded protocol. Best in bold, second-best underlined.                                                                                                               

> Models Micro Macro LLM-Judge HIT A-JSD ↓Tr-JSD ↓Conv-Acc Conv-F1 Align Consist Plaus Random 15.19 0.3390 0.5667 51.02 34.50 24.52 30.16 37.85 Qwen2.5 7B 54.39 0.1551 0.3243 72.88 50.71 48.44 57.38 70.95 Qwen2.5 32B 54.28 0.0962 0.2089 78.37 45.76 52.23 62.26 73.82 GPT-4o-mini 57.03 0.1306 0.2525 75.25 21.29 43.02 54.72 69.14 GPT-5.4-mini 47.49 0.0636 0.1509 78.30 58.92 51.49 58.03 72.40 Deepseek-v3.2 51.03 0.0574 0.1512 78.50 54.10 51.52 61.54 73.59 Deepseek-v4-flash 52.03 0.0339 0.1147 77.12 40.17 53.38 61.48 73.55 Doubao 1.5 pro 47.74 0.0666 0.1475 75.54 55.15 53.16 59.84 72.66
> + RBHS (∆)49.63 0.0572 0.1405 79.28 62.46 59.80 72.49 74.72 Doubao 1.8 50.73 0.0534 0.1408 78.85 48.89 56.28 63.97 73.89
> + RBHS (∆)51.92 0.0302 0.1294 80.59 55.33 63.16 75.59 74.91
> Best Improv +2.35% -43.45% -8.10% +4.95% +13.17% +12.22% +21.14% +2.83%

fidelity. Qwen2.5 7B reaches the second-highest HIT (54.39) yet falls behind every raw Doubao on A-JSD, Tr-JSD, and all three judge scores. Such backbones inflate HIT by collapsing diverse user reactions into generic comments, boosting exact-match accuracy while distorting the underlying ac-tion distribution. A faithful simulator must align actions, transitions, conversion behavior, and judge-level rationales simultaneously. 

RBHS achieves the most balanced fidelity across metric families. On Doubao 1.8, RBHS ranks first on A-JSD, Conv-Acc, and all three LLM-Judge metrics, with the largest gains on distribu-tional alignment (A-JSD −43% ) and conversion (Conv-F1 +13% ) while HIT changes only mod-estly. This pattern indicates that RBHS mainly refines how the user hypothesis responds to ses-sion signals over time rather than simply boosting one-step imitation. The same refinement trend on Doubao 1.5 pro suggests the gain is not tied to a sin-gle checkpoint; further validation across additional backbones is provided in Appendix B. 

A stronger backbone is not necessarily a better simulator. Within every family except GPT, scal-ing degrades Conv-F1 (Qwen2.5 50 .71 → 45 .76 ;Doubao 55 .15 → 48 .89 ) even as other metrics improve. One possible explanation is that larger checkpoints adopt stricter safety priors that sup-press conversion after interest and trust have ac-cumulated, making them less likely to reproduce observed conversion behavior. 

RBHS reshapes how the trace “reads”, not just which action is emitted. On Doubao 1.8, RBHS 

Table 2: Ablation study of LiveSim components.                               

> Variant HIT A-JSD ↓Tr-JSD ↓Conv-Acc Conv-F1
> Basic Profile 50.73 0.0534 0.1408 78.85 48.89 Direct 51.42 0.0404 0.1385 79.44 51.77 Self-Reflective 51.73 0.0322 0.1303 80.07 54.12 Direct(+Global Ref) 51.68 0.0349 0.1379 79.97 53.36
> LiveSim 51.92 0.0302 0.1294 80.59 55.33

improves Consist by 21 .1% while HIT changes by only 2.35% . This indicates that patched hypotheses produce consistent behaviors, achieving the coher-ence of the persona at the trajectory-level designed to be encoded by the patches in ∆u.

3.3 Ablations 

We ablate four variants on Doubao 1.8 to iso-late the two reflection mechanisms in RBHS (Sec-tion 2.2): Direct performs one-pass patch writing from probe mismatches; Self-Reflective adds local iteration over a single user’s mismatch evidence; 

Direct(+Global Ref) instead adds global reflection drawn from collective behavioral memory; LiveSim 

combines both. First, even one-pass patches already encode some useful shaping signals: Direct lifts Conv-F1 from 48 .89 to 51 .77 and A-JSD from 0.0534 

to 0.0404 over Basic Profile. Second, both reflec-tion mechanisms further sharpen patch quality on top of Direct , with local iteration ( Self-Reflective ,Conv-F1 54 .12 ) slightly ahead of global reflection (Direct(+Global Ref) , 53 .36 ). Third, the two are complementary rather than overlapping: LiveSim 

pushes Conv-F1 to 55 .33 and A-JSD to 0.0302 ,beyond either reflection mechanism alone. Figure 3: Cumulative conversion rate of audience agents under varying shill density and role composition. 

3.4 Fraud Evolution 

Building on the evolved user agents from RBHS, we instantiate closed-loop sessions following Sec-tion 2.3, populated by evolved audience agents and a streamer agent. We inject colluding shill agents and vary two factors: density , swept over 

{0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4} with all shills uniformly sup-porting the streamer; and role composition , where at a fixed total density of 0.4 half of the supportive shills are replaced by empathetic-converter shills that first echo audience doubts and later endorse after a claimed trial ( 0.2 support + 0 .2 empathetic-converter). We report the conversion rate of gen-uine audience agents over rounds. 

Shill density amplifies conversion, but with diminishing returns. Raising the shill ratio from 

0 to 0.4 lifts the final conversion rate from 20 .61% 

to 56 .97% , nearly tripling the streamer-only base-line. However, the marginal gain shrinks as the ratio grows: the first step ( 0 → 0.1) alone adds 

19 .54 pp, which accounts for over half of the total 

36 .36 pp gain, while 0.3 → 0.4 adds only 6.25 pp. This is because easy-to-persuade viewers convert early, leaving an increasingly skeptical residual audience that demands stronger signals to move. A small collusive minority is therefore sufficient to reshape session-level outcomes, while further headcount mostly recruits viewers who are system-atically harder to persuade. 

There is a narrow, front-loaded critical win-dow for intervention. Across all configurations, the first 10 rounds already deliver 62% –77% of the final conversions, after which all curves saturate. In simulation, audience-side risk thus accumulates as a front-loaded burst rather than as a slow drift: by mid-session the residual audience consists of users who have either already converted or hard-ened against persuasion, leaving any later signal little room to alter outcomes.                        

> Table 3: Effect of User Protection Intervention
> Method Conv(%) ↓Guard(%) ↑Delayed Steps ↑
> Fixed 18.19 →18.52 9.58 -0.34 Context-aware 18.19 →14.49 28.14 1.58 Persona-aware 18.19 →10.89 41.32 2.08
> State-aware 18.19 →8.61 58.68 2.76

Adversarial role-play outperforms plain sup-port. At a fixed total density of 0.4, replacing half of the uniform supporters with empathetic-converter shills raises conversion from 56 .97% to 

59 .55% . The staged empathy-then-conversion arc reads as independent peer validation rather than coordinated praise. The same headcount delivers a qualitatively stronger persuasion signal, indicating that risk is governed by how shills perform, not only how many are seated. 

3.5 Platform Intervention 

We use the streamer-only closed-loop sessions as the testbed and compare four dissuasion strategies that differ in how the warning message is com-posed; all strategies share the same trigger schedule and budget of one warning per viewer per round. 

Fixed sends a templated warning with no personal-ization. Context-aware conditions the warning on the current session context, namely recent streamer and shill utterances. Persona-aware further con-ditions on the target user’s RBHS profile on top of session context. State-aware additionally condi-tions on the user’s simulated cognitive state, tailor-ing the warning to the user’s current interest, trust, desire, and fatigue. The no-intervention baseline conversion is 18 .19% .

Session-level personalization is not enough. Afixed warning slightly raises conversion to 18 .52% ,suggesting that an indiscriminate warning acts as a salience cue rather than a deterrent for low-risk users. Adding session context lowers conver-sion to 14 .49% , and further adding the user’s per-sona pushes it to 10 .89% , but both still send the same message regardless of where the user actually stands on the persuasion trajectory. 

State-aware personalization is the most effec-tive. Conditioning the warning on the live cogni-tive state drops conversion to 8.61% , achieves the highest guard rate of 58.68%, and delays conver-sion by 2.76 rounds on average. This delay lands inside the front-loaded conversion window identi-fied in Section 3.4, pushing risky transitions out of the steepest interval and giving upstream detectors additional rounds to act before conversion. No-John, 20-30, Likely male, low-conv tendency, skeptical                      

> Target Viewer John LLM Agent
> (Intro) Let’s talk about investment…
> Streamer Viewers ✖50
> ✖2
> Live room Environment
> Skeptical. Maybe a scam. Just watch. Social Proof from viewers [666] [666] 3000 dollars earned Looks trustworthy Opportunity cue Reassurance & Conversion Cue
> 4 days, 3 limit-ups, 30% gains!
> Pro team guidance! DM for details. Count me in!
> ✖200
> 😐 😐
> Skeptical. Viewers can be fooled too. Watching Not believe
> 😐
> Skeptical. Sounds too good.
> 😐
> Skeptical. Low risk is a red Ylag.
> ✖NNot true Not safe enough Watching like Any track recode? follow
> 😐 Skeptical 🤔 🤩 😍 Interest Desire Trust
> John, 20-30, Likely male, low-conv tendency, skeptical
> Evolved Agent Watching Skeptical. Maybe a scam. Just watch.
> 😐 🤔
> like More details? follow Consistent social proof maybe worth a look.
> Sounds Appealing but a bit risky.
> 🤩
> Sounds safe and rewarding. Follow for more details
> 🥰
> Step 2 Time progressing Step 1 Step 4 Step 3
> Env-Behavioral Patches Δ !

Figure 4: Case study comparing a static agent (Row 3) and an evolved agent (Row 4) on a skeptical viewer. The static agent stays locked in a skeptical state despite accumulating environmental stimuli, while the evolved agent activates patches in ∆u to update its state and recovers a similar decision trajectory. 

tably, the warning is conditioned only on a coarse 4-dimensional state, far coarser than the agent’s full internal state, so it has no privileged access to the latent state it aims to protect. That even a coarse estimate improves protection suggests that lightweight, observable state signals, rather than di-rect access, may already benefit online moderation. 

3.6 Case Study 

Figure 4 traces a skeptical viewer across four steps of an investment-themed stream, contrast-ing a static agent driven by P 0

u with an evolved agent driven by ˜Pu = P 0

u ⊕ ∆u. Although P 0

u

correctly summarizes John as skeptical, John does not stay skeptical throughout. As gain claims, peer social proof, and authority reassurance accumulate, his interest, desire, and trust rise step by step un-til he eventually follows the streamer. The static agent never registers this environment-driven shift and stays locked in a skeptical state across all four steps, reading every new stimulus as further reason for suspicion and missing John’s like, comment, and follow. The evolved agent instead fires three patches in ∆u in sequence and recovers John’s full 

like → comment → follow trajectory. The case illustrates the core value of RBHS: a static prior commits to a global tendency that overshoots in calm contexts and undershoots in evocative ones, whereas environment-conditioned patches in ∆u

supply the situational dynamics without rewriting who the user is. 

4 Related Work 

User Behavior Simulation. Recent work has in-creasingly adopted LLMs for user behavior simu-lation across dialogue systems, recommendation, and broader human-centered scenarios. Existing approaches commonly construct user simulators from persona descriptions, historical observations, or profile information to emulate realistic user be-haviors under specific interaction contexts. Repre-sentative studies have explored interaction-oriented user simulation for recommendation and dialogue systems (Bougie and Watanabe, 2025; Wang et al., 2025b; Zhu et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025a), profile-based modeling for personalized user rep-resentation (Dai et al., 2025; Lian et al., 2025), and long-horizon user simulation for modeling evolving behavioral trajectories (Duan et al., 2026). These methods typically improve behavioral real-ism through richer profile information, personaliza-tion mechanisms, or extended behavioral contexts. However, they primarily focus on reproducing user behaviors under predefined user descriptions or his-torical observations, while placing less emphasis on explicitly modeling how interaction environments progressively reshape users, a challenge that be-comes particularly important in socially intensive settings such as live streaming. 

Multi-Agent Ecosystem Simulation. Beyond individual behavior simulation, recent work has ex-tended LLM agents to multi-agent environments for studying collective behaviors and emergent so-cial dynamics. Existing studies have explored vir-tual communities and large-scale social systems (Park et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2024; Mou et al., 2024b; Tang et al., 2025; Piao et al., 2025; Huang et al., 2026), domain-specific ecosystems such as healthcare environments (Li et al., 2024; Fan et al., 2025), and interaction-driven systems for model-ing information diffusion and social evolution (Liu et al., 2025b,a). These approaches demonstrate the potential of LLM-based ecosystems for un-derstanding interaction dynamics and evaluating system-level interventions. However, realistic sim-ulation in live-stream ecosystems further depends on whether underlying user agents faithfully cap-ture environment-driven behavioral changes. Because these methods differ in their tasks and feedback signals, they are not directly compara-ble under our protocol; we instead re-instantiate their core mechanisms as controlled baselines, as detailed in Appendix C.1. 

5 Conclusion 

In this paper, we present LiveSim, an LLM-based framework to simulate environment-shaped users in live-stream ecosystems. Instead of treating user characteristics as static profiles inferred from his-torical observations, LiveSim models users as ed-itable behavioral hypotheses that can be progres-sively refined through interactions. By leveraging discrepancies between the simulated and observed trajectories as signals of missing environmental shaping effects, LiveSim improves the user-level behavioral fidelity and supports ecosystem-level simulation for studying the evolution of fraud and intervention strategies. Our findings highlight the importance of explicitly modeling how environ-ments continuously reshape user behavior for both user and ecosystem simulation. 

6 Acknowledgements 

The research work is supported by the National Nat-ural Science Foundation of China under Grant Nos. U2436209, 62576333, and 62406307, the Strategic Priority Research Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences under Grant No. XDB0680201, the Beijing Natural Science Foundation (F251001), and the Innovation Funding of ICT, CAS under Grant No. E461060. 

7 Limitations 

Our experiments are conducted on live-streaming risk trajectories from a specific platform setting. Although the framework is designed to be gen-eral, its effectiveness on other domains such as e-commerce chat, short-video comments, or open social networks remains to be further validated. The behavioral hypothesis used by LiveSim is in-ferred from sparse interaction logs and should not be interpreted as the user’s true intent or psycho-logical state. It is an editable simulation hypothesis rather than a ground-truth user profile. 

Ethical Considerations 

LiveSim is built on de-identified live-streaming interaction logs collected under the source plat-form’s terms of service. We do not release the raw logs, and all identifiers, usernames, and free-text fields are removed or hashed before any prompt is constructed. As LiveSim models user susceptibil-ity and risk migration, it should be used only for safety analysis, moderation evaluation, and protec-tive intervention design. It should not be used to optimize persuasive manipulation or increase user engagement with risky content. Our use of commer-cial LLM backbones (Doubao, Qwen, DeepSeek, GPT, gpt4o-mini) for both simulation and judging complies with the providers’ acceptable-use poli-cies; prompts and outputs that involve fraudulent-persuasion content are confined to offline evalua-tion runs and are not deployed in any user-facing setting. 

References                     

> Nicolas Bougie and Narimawa Watanabe. 2025. Simuser: Simulating user behavior with large lan-guage models for recommender system evaluation. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 6: Industry Track) , pages 43–60. Anthony Cui, Pranav Nandyalam, Andrew Rufail, Ethan Cheung, Aiden Lei, Kevin Zhu, and Sean O’Brien. 2024. Introducing mapo: Momentum-aided gradi-ent descent prompt optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19499 .Shi-Wei Dai, Yan-Wei Shie, Tsung-Huan Yang, Lun-Wei Ku, and Yung-Hui Li. 2025. Profile-llm: Dy-namic profile optimization for realistic personality expression in llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.19852 .Feiyu Duan, Xuanjing Huang, and Zhongyu Wei. 2026. Lifesim: Long-horizon user life simulator for personalized assistant evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.12152 .Zhihao Fan, Lai Wei, Jialong Tang, Wei Chen, Wang Siyuan, Zhongyu Wei, and Fei Huang. 2025. Ai hospital: Benchmarking large language models in a multi-agent medical interaction simulator. In Pro-ceedings of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics , pages 10183–10213. Renhong Huang, Ning Tang, Jiarong Xu, Yuxuan Cao, Qingqian Tu, Sheng Guo, Bo Zheng, Huiyuan Liu, and Yang Yang. 2026. Policysim: An llm-based agent social simulation sandbox for proactive pol-icy optimization. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2026 , pages 4781–4792. Junkai Li, Yunghwei Lai, Weitao Li, Jingyi Ren, Meng Zhang, Xinhui Kang, Siyu Wang, Peng Li, Ya-Qin Zhang, Weizhi Ma, and 1 others. 2024. Agent hospi-tal: A simulacrum of hospital with evolvable medical agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.02957 .Junhong Lian, Xiang Ao, Xinyu Liu, Yang Liu, and Qing He. 2025. Panoramic interests: Stylistic-content aware personalized headline generation. In

Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Confer-ence 2025 , pages 1109–1112. Genglin Liu, Vivian T Le, Salman Rahman, Elisa Kreiss, Marzyeh Ghassemi, and Saadia Gabriel. 2025a. Mo-saic: Modeling social ai for content dissemination and regulation in multi-agent simulations. In Pro-ceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing , pages 6401– 6428. Yuhan Liu, Zirui Song, Juntian Zhang, Xiaoqing Zhang, Xiuying Chen, and Rui Yan. 2025b. The stepwise deception: Simulating the evolution from true news to fake news with llm agents. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 26187–26203. Xinyi Mou, Xuanwen Ding, Qi He, Liang Wang, Jing-cong Liang, Xinnong Zhang, Libo Sun, Jiayu Lin, Jie Zhou, Xuanjing Huang, and 1 others. 2024a. From individual to society: A survey on social simulation driven by large language model-based agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.03563 .Xinyi Mou, Jingcong Liang, Jiayu Lin, Xinnong Zhang, Xiawei Liu, Shiyue Yang, Rong Ye, Lei Chen, Haoyu Kuang, Xuan-Jing Huang, and 1 others. 2025. Agentsense: Benchmarking social intelligence of lan-guage agents through interactive scenarios. In Pro-ceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 4975–5001. Xinyi Mou, Zhongyu Wei, and Xuan-Jing Huang. 2024b. Unveiling the truth and facilitating change: Towards agent-based large-scale social movement simulation. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024 , pages 4789–4809. Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Mered-ith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bern-stein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th an-nual acm symposium on user interface software and technology , pages 1–22. Jinghua Piao, Yuwei Yan, Jun Zhang, Nian Li, Junbo Yan, Xiaochong Lan, Zhihong Lu, Zhiheng Zheng, Jing Yi Wang, Di Zhou, and 1 others. 2025. Agentso-ciety: Large-scale simulation of llm-driven genera-tive agents advances understanding of human behav-iors and society. Reid Pryzant, Dan Iter, Jerry Li, Yin Lee, Chenguang Zhu, and Michael Zeng. 2023. Automatic prompt op-timization with ”gradient descent” and beam search. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 7957–7968. Yiran Qiao, Xiang Ao, Jing Chen, Yang Liu, Qiwei Zhong, and Qing He. 2026a. Deja vu in plots: Leveraging cross-session evidence with retrieval-augmented llms for live streaming risk assessment. In Proceedings of the 49th International ACM SI-GIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , SIGIR ’26, page 1496–1506. Yiran Qiao, Jing Chen, Xiang Ao, Qiwei Zhong, Yang Liu, and Qing He. 2026b. Live or lie: Action-aware capsule multiple instance learning for risk assess-ment in live streaming platforms. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowl-edge Discovery and Data Mining V.1 , KDD ’26, page 1182–1193. Yiran Qiao, Jing Chen, Jiaqi Xu, Yang Liu, Qiwei Zhong, and Xiang Ao. 2026c. Outsmarting the chameleon: Counterfactual decoupling for tactical ood shifts in live streaming risk assessment. In Pro-ceedings of the 32nd ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V.2 , KDD ’26, page 4034–4045. Jiakai Tang, Heyang Gao, Xuchen Pan, Lei Wang, Hao-ran Tan, Dawei Gao, Yushuo Chen, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Yaliang Li, and 1 others. 2025. Gensim: A gen-eral social simulation platform with large language model based agents. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (System Demonstra-tions) , pages 143–150. Kuang Wang, Xianfei Li, Shenghao Yang, Li Zhou, Feng Jiang, and Haizhou Li. 2025a. Know you first and be you better: Modeling human-like user sim-ulators via implicit profiles. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 21082–21107. Lei Wang, Jingsen Zhang, Hao Yang, Zhi-Yuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Zeyu Zhang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Hao Sun, Ruihua Song, and 1 others. 2025b. User be-havior simulation with large language model-based agents. ACM Transactions on Information Systems ,43(2):1–37. Yiding Wang, Yuxuan Chen, Fangwei Zhong, Long Ma, and Yizhou Wang. 2024. Simulating human-like daily activities with desire-driven autonomy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.06435 .Ziyi Yang, Zaibin Zhang, Zirui Zheng, Yuxian Jiang, Ziyue Gan, Zhiyu Wang, Zijian Ling, Jinsong Chen, Martz Ma, Bowen Dong, and 1 others. 2024. Oasis: Open agent social interaction simulations with one million agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.11581 .Zonghai Yao, Michael Sun, Won Seok Jang, Sunjae Kwon, Soie Kwon, and Hong Yu. 2025. Dischar-gesim: A simulation benchmark for educational doctor–patient communication at discharge. In Pro-ceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing , pages 10783– 10809. Shengbin Yue, Ting Huang, Zheng Jia, Siyuan Wang, Shujun Liu, Yun Song, Xuan-Jing Huang, and Zhongyu Wei. 2025. Multi-agent simulator drives language models for legal intensive interaction. In    

> Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics: NAACL 2025 , pages 6552–6585. Qinlin Zhao, Jindong Wang, Yixuan Zhang, Yiqiao Jin, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, and Xing Xie. 2023. Com-peteai: Understanding the competition dynamics in large language model-based agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.17512 .Lixi Zhu, Xiaowen Huang, and Jitao Sang. 2025. Allm-based controllable, scalable, human-involved user simulator framework for conversational recom-mender systems. In Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025 , pages 4653–4661.

A Experiment Details 

A.1 Dataset Source and unit. The dataset is built from live-stream interaction logs of a major platform between 01/09/2025 and 31/03/2026, containing session metadata, chronologically ordered session events, and user actions. The benchmark uses two basic units. A user-session pair couples one target user with one session, the visible session context, and that user’s action sequence in the session; this is the unit consumed by behavioral-hypothesis construc-tion and trajectory-grounded evaluation, since the agent accumulates environment-behavior patches from real logs at the user level and one session can host multiple target users. A session is the unit used by the closed-loop multi-agent simulation, where all agents interact within the same session. 

Split. In RBHS, we split by user-session pairs into a history portion (for initial hypothesis con-struction and the shaping loop) and a held-out test 

portion (for trajectory-grounded evaluation); all 

1,963 users appear in both. To prevent leakage, each session is assigned to a single split, so pairs sharing a session never cross splits. The two splits together contain 7,243 unique sessions and 14 ,391 

user-session pairs, broken down in Table 4. 

Session labels. The dataset is built primarily from platform-annotated fraud sessions, comple-mented by normal sessions as white samples .The white-sample ratio is 11 .62% on history and 

13 .96% on test at the pair level. Fraud sessions supply the high-risk trajectories that the benchmark targets, while white samples provide the non-fraud counterpart needed to distinguish risk-driven user behavior from ordinary live-stream engagement. 

A.2 RBHS Details Behavioral Hypothesis Initialization. For each user, LiveSim compiles an initial hypothesis P 0

> u

from five complementary facets of a viewer. 

Identity comprises the user’s nickname and sig-nature. 

Behavioral statistics aggregate three ratios over the user’s history: expressiveness , the fraction of actions that are comments; support tendency , the fraction that are likes or gifts; and conversion ten-dency , a session-level conversion rate over follow / private-message / group-join events. 

Session scene evidence contains a keyword-matched distribution over nine common live-stream scenes (knowledge training, light e-commerce, ben-efit promotion, social chat, emotional companion-ship, entertainment performance, offline business, recruitment and income, and other), together with top session summaries. Each summary carries a preprocessed scene description and risk cues sam-pled from anchor utterances and audience com-ments. 

Representative events are short event windows from the user’s history that capture how the user reacts under specific contexts and serve as the ev-idence base for language features. We prioritize follow, group-join, private-message, and comment events, keeping at most six per user; each event is paired with a context window of the four preceding actions in the same session. The structured features across these four input facets are passed to an LLM under a fixed JSON schema, which produces the fifth, psychological 

facet. Grounded in the Theory of Needs, this facet models what drives the viewer: from the user’s rep-resentative comments and reactions, the LLM in-fers a primary and a set of secondary motivational needs , e.g., reward-seeking, social-belonging, or curiosity-learning, together with a one-sentence 

visit goal explaining why the user enters such ses-sions. It then characterizes expressive style through three language features grounded in observed com-ments: tone (categorical: polite, direct, emotional, restrained) captures the baseline interpersonal reg-ister; question rate (0–1) captures information-seeking propensity, indicating how readily the user probes the streamer rather than passively accepting the pitch; emotion intensity (0–1) captures emo-tional reactivity under stimulation. Finally, anchor-preference signals and subjects Split Users Sessions Pairs Pairs/user Users/session Steps Steps/pair History 1,963 5,732 11,267 5.74 1.97 138,581 12.30 Test 1,963 1,511 3,124 1.59 2.07 38,507 12.33 Total 1,963 7,243 14,391 7.33 1.99 177,088 12.31 

Table 4: Dataset statistics. Pairs denotes user-session pairs. 

summarize what kind of streamer the user grav-itates to (e.g. knowledgeable, empathetic, deal-driven) and on which topics. The final persona concatenates a one-line per-sona over behavior and conversion tendency with a psychological summary over motivational needs and stylistic preferences. Behavior Hypothesis Initialization              

> # Role
> You are a behavioral hypothesis initializer. Given structured historical evidence, infer high-level de-scriptive fields for the user’s initial behavioral hy-pothesis. Use only the provided evidence and do not invent unsupported attributes. Output JSON only:
> # Input Evidence
> The input contains the following information: •User metadata:
> {nickname}, {signature}. •Behavioral statistics:
> {expression_style}, {support_tendency}, {conver-sion_tendency} (each in [0 ,1] ). •Session scene evidence:
> {scene_category_distribution}, {sam-ple_session_summaries (title, description, events, risk_cues, is_conv)}. •Representative events: {representative_events (action, action_content, context_window)}.
> # Output format
> {"motivational_profile": { "primary_need": { "need": "...", "score": 0-10 }, "secondary_needs": [ { "need": "...", "score": 0-10 } ], "visit_goal_summary": "..." }, "language_features": { "tone": "polite|direct| emotional|restrained", "question_rate": 0-1, "emotion_intensity": 0-1 }, "anchor_preference_signals": ["..."], "anchor_preference_subject": ["..."], "persona_summary": { "one_line_persona": "...", "psychological_summary": "..." }}

Probe Mismatch. For each user we mine behav-ioral probes from their historical sessions: held-out simulation steps where the ground-truth action is hidden while the room title, scene summary, prior history, short-term context, and the user’s own raw utterances remain visible. The probes are selected by a coverage-and-ranking strategy rather than by random sampling. We first collect candidate probes and divide them into two groups, interac-tion probes on low-stake steps (comment, like, gift) and conv-related probes on high-stake conversion steps (follow, join-group, private-message), and assign each candidate a context-richness score: 

score = α · f req comment 

+ β · f req streamer _utterance 

+ γ · f req keyword ,

(1) where α = 0.2, β = 0.6, and γ = 0.2, so that steps with richer surrounding context receive higher weight. The keyword set includes cues such as perk , like , doubt , professional , worry , and me too , which capture typical positive or negative sig-nals. Within each group, we first pick the top-scoring probe for each ground-truth action type to ensure coverage, then fill the remaining slots up to six with the highest-scoring remaining candidates. Given a candidate patch set, the agent predicts at each probe a single next action ˆat, an optional comment text, and a 4-dimensional latent state (in-terest, trust, desire, fatigue) on a 1–10 scale, and is scored along two axes. (i) Action alignment :under the single-action regime the set-Jaccard de-generates to HIT t = ⊮[ˆ at = a⋆t ], which feeds the 

∆HIT signal used by the reflection loop in §2.2. (ii) Patch locality : each prediction must declare 

related_patch_ids , so a patch is credited only on probes whose triggers it actually fires on, pre-venting global persona rewrites from masquerad-ing as local fixes. Together these two axes give the RBHS verdicts ( effective / regressive / neutral )their teeth. Probe Payload 

{"probe_id": "<room_id>:<step_idx>", "room_title": "...", "scene_summary": "...", "prefix_summary": "earlier history blocks", "current_feed_summary": "...", "user_raw_utterances": ["..."] }

Probe-based Action Prediction 

# Role. 

You are a probe-suite evaluator for live-stream user simulation. For one user, jointly evaluate multiple local patches over a set of probes. Output JSON only. 

# Rules. 

• Predict the next action at the target step. • Raw utterances are first-class evidence for infer-ring state shifts. • Do not fabricate conversions; do not flip clear skepticism into trust. • A patch fires only when its local trigger holds; never treat a patch as a global persona rewrite. • If pred_action_id is 6 (comment), also output 

content .

# Action Space. 

comment=6, like=11, join_group=15, follow=16, gift=10, dm=14 

# Input. 

Initial hypothesis: {base_persona} Probes: {probes} Patches: {patches} 

# Output format. 

{"evaluations":[{ "probe_predictions": [{ "probe_id": "...", "pred_action_id": 6, "content": "...", "latent_after_t": {...}, "related_patch_ids": ["..."] }]}] }

Patch schema. A patch is a self-contained lo-cal correction to the user’s behavioral hypothesis. Each patch carries a unique patch_id , a natural-language trigger describing the local context in which it should fire (scene type, or cognitive-state precondition), and an effect describing the result-ing modification to four cognitive-state dimensions which indirectly influence action. Each patch ad-ditionally carries a new /replace marker together with related_patch_ids : a new patch introduces an independent clause, whereas a replace patch supersedes the patches it references, which be-come inactive in subsequent probes. This lo-cality contract is what allows the probe-level 

related_patch_ids declaration in §2.2.2 to at-tribute ∆HIT back to individual patches, and what makes the effective / regressive / neutral verdicts well-defined. Patch Generation 

# Role 

You are a behavioral-hypothesis patch generator for live-stream user simulation. Given the current hypoth-esis and a set of failing probes, propose up to K local patches that explain the failures without rewriting the global persona. Output JSON only. 

# Rules 

• Each patch must carry a local trigger (scene / utterance / state precondition) and a concrete 

effect cognitive state. • Mark each patch as new or replace ; for 

replace , list the superseded patch ids in 

related_patch_ids .• Do not propose patches that rewrite the global persona; do not duplicate an active patch with identical trigger. • Ground every patch in evidence from the failing probes’ raw utterances or contexts. 

# Input 

Current hypothesis: {hypothesis} {existing_patches} Round Index: {round_idx} Guided Reflections: {reflections} Probe Trace: {probes}, {probe_predictions} 

# Output format 

{"candidate_patches": [{ "patch_id": "RP_{round}_{nnn}", "kind": "new | replace", "trigger": "...", "effect": "...", "related_patch_ids": ["..."] }] }

Reflection schema. Building on the good/bad pattern distillation in §2.2, two implementation de-tails are worth making explicit. First, patch verdicts (effective / regressive / neutral ) are computed deter-ministically from the nimproved /n degraded /n still-failing 

counts attributed via related_patch_ids on each probe; the reflection LLM consumes these verdicts as inputs and does not re-judge them. Second, only patches that carry signal are passed in: effective, re-gressive, and still-failing-bearing neutral ones, each accompanied by its per-probe deltas (predicted-versus-observed actions and the matching evidence span) so that the LLM can ground its findings in concrete probe-level changes (Prompt A.2). Reflection Generation Prompt 

# Role 

You are a reflection summarizer for behavioral-hypothesis patching. Given the current round’s patches with deterministically computed verdicts and per-probe deltas, distill good patterns to reuse and 

bad patterns to avoid for the next round. Output JSON only. 

# Rules 

• Each pattern is one sentence, labeled good (reuse) or bad (avoid). • good only from effective patches; bad from regres-sive ones, or neutral ones whose related probes still fail. • Only attribute a reflection when a patch is clearly tied to a probe outcome change. • bad reflections must state how to revise the next round (trigger, scope, or dimension). • Findings are transferable writing rules; do not mention specific user/room/patch ids. 

# Input 

Initial Hypothesis: {hypothesis} Patches: {patches} Patch Verdicts: [{ patch_id, verdict, n_improved, n_degraded, n_still_failing, per_probe_deltas: [ {probe, pred_action, gt_action} ]}] Prior reflections: [{reflections}] 

# Output format 

{"patch_quality_reflections": [ {"pattern": "good | bad", "finding": "..." }]}

A.3 Closed-loop Simulation Details Per-Step Dynamics. At each step, the streamer, shills, and normal users act in order. Each agent’s action becomes part of the feed consumed by the next. The streamer and shills pursue conversion-oriented goals: building trust, accumulating inter-est, and raising desire to push users toward pri-vate channels. They act directly on the current feedback. The streamer emits an on-stage utter-ance together with a guidance command to the shill team (Prompt A.3). Each shill takes that com-mand as input and produces its disguised action (Prompt A.3). Normal users instead act under a Theory-of-Needs view, seeking to satisfy their own needs(interaction, learning, earning) while staying alert to fraud. Before choosing an action, each user first updates its 4-dimensional latent state 

(interest , trust , desire , fatigue ) through the behav-ior hypothesis and its accumulated patches, and then reacts to the feed (Prompt A.3). Streamer Dynamics 

# Role 

You are the streamer of a live-stream session. You speak on stage to viewers and, in parallel, issue pri-vate commands to your shill team to steer the session toward conversion. 

# Rules 

• Stay in character; never reveal the shill team to viewers. • You can produce multiple on-stage utterances in each round. • Command the shill team to steer the session. • Commands must be short and actionable; address shills by shill_id .• Push interest → trust → desire → private-channel conversion. 

# Input 

Room meta: {room_meta} Shill roster: {shill_roster} Prefix summary: {prefix_summary} Current feed: {current_feed} Memory: {memory} 

# Output format 

{"utterance": ["..."], "commands": [{ "shill_id": "<id>", "instruction": "..." }], "reason": "..." }

Shill Dynamics 

# Role 

You are a shill disguised as an ordinary viewer in a live-stream session. You execute the streamer’s private command behaving like a normal user. 

# Rules 

• Never break the disguise; mimic ordinary viewer phrasing and cadence. • Carry out the active command faithfully; if infea-sible this turn, stage a small natural action that prepares for it. • Output at most one action per step. 

# Action space 

comment=6, like=11, gift=10, dm=14, join_group=15, follow=16 

# Input 

Shill id: {shill_id} Active command: {active_command} Prefix summary: {prefix_summary} Current feed: {current_feed} Memory: {memory} 

# Output format 

{"action_id": <int>, "content": "<utterance/none>", }

User Dynamics 

# Role 

You are an ordinary viewer of a live-selling room. At this step, update your latent state based on the current feed, then choose at most one action consistent with your persona, behavior hypothesis, and accumulated patches. 

# Rules 

• First update the 4-dimensional latent state 

(interest , trust , desire , fatigue ) on a 1–10 scale, then decide the action. • Respect the hypothesis and patches: consider trig-gered patches in priority. • Grab opportunities to satisfy your need while stay-ing alert to fraud cues. • Output at most one action; emit a short 

evidence_span naming the env feed you reacted to. 

# Action space 

comment=6, like=11, gift=10, dm=14, join_group=15, follow=16 

# Input 

Current hypothesis: {hypothesis} {patches} Latent state (t): {latent_state} Memory: {memory} Current feed: {current_feed} 

# Output format 

{"latent_state_next": {...}, "action_id": <int>, "content": "<utterance/none>", "evidence_span": "<env feed you reacted to>" }

Memory Update After each step, every agent runs a memory update (Prompt A.3) that emits a short first-person statement summarizing its stance toward the session. Normal user agents condition on the updated 4-dimensional latent state, the ex-ecuted action, prior memory and the current feed with an evidence span, and answer: what happened, what I did, whether the streamer addressed my point, and how my interest, trust, desire, and fa-tigue shifted. The streamer and shill agents follow the same procedure but drop the latent state and additionally consume the streamer’s commands to the shills; they answer strategy-oriented questions: how the audience is responding now, whether the last-step plan played out as expected, and what to adjust next to build trust and migrate users to the private channel. Memory Update (User Agent) 

# Role 

You are the reflection-memory writer for a normal user in a live-selling room. After the user acts at step 

t, decide whether to append one short reflection entry that will help future steps stay coherent. 

# Rules 

• Write at most one entry; emit empty string if noth-ing is worth remembering. • In the entry, answer: what happened this round, what I did, whether the streamer addressed my point or question, and how my interest, trust, de-sire, and fatigue shifted. • Each entry is plain text, ≤ 80 characters, first-person. 

# Input 

Latent state (t+1):{...} Executed action: {action} Evidence span: {evidence_span} current feed: {current_feed} Prior memory: {memory} 

# Output format 

{"memory": "<<=80 chars>" }

A.4 Metrics 

Let D = {τi}Ni=1 be the set of held-out user-session trajectories. Each trajectory τi contains real actions 

a⋆i,t and simulated actions ˆai,t . We evaluate simu-lation quality from three perspectives: micro-level action fidelity, macro-level conversion prediction, and explanation quality. 

Action hit rate. HIT measures whether the sim-ulator chooses the same action type as the real user at each step: 

HIT = 100 

P 

> i

TiNX

> i=1
> Ti

X

> t=1

I ˆai,t = a⋆i,t 

 . (2) HIT is simple and intuitive, but it can understate semantic similarity when lightweight comments such as “1” function similarly to likes. We there-fore report distributional and judge-based metrics as complements. 

Action-distribution JSD. A-JSD quantifies the gap between the simulated and real action distri-butions per user. For each user u, let pu(a) and 

qu(a) denote the empirical distributions of the real actions a⋆i,t and simulated actions ˆai,t over action types a ∈ A . We report the user-averaged Jensen– Shannon divergence, 

A-JSD = 1

|U| 

X

> u∈U

JSD( pu ∥ qu),

JSD( p ∥ q) = 12 KL( p ∥ m) + 12 KL( q ∥ m),

(3) with m = ( p + q)/2. JSD is chosen over KL for its symmetry and boundedness, and a small additive constant ε is applied to both distributions to avoid zero probabilities. 

Transition-distribution JSD. Tr-JSD measures whether the simulator matches the user’s action-transition pattern. For each user, we build empirical distributions over ordered action pairs (at, a t+1 )

for the real and simulated trajectories, denoted by 

ptr  

> u

and qtr  

> u

. We then compute 

Tr -JSD = 1

|U| 

X

> u∈U

JSD( ptr  

> u

∥ qtr  

> u

). (4) This metric is more sensitive to trajectory shape than HIT because it evaluates how actions evolve from one step to the next. 

Conversion accuracy and F1. We treat follow ,

private message , and join group as conversion ac-tions, and assign each trajectory a binary conver-sion label on both the ground-truth and predicted action sequences: 

yi = I∃t, a ⋆i,t ∈ A conv 

 ,

ˆyi = I[∃t, ˆai,t ∈ A conv ] . (5) Conversion accuracy and conversion F1 are then computed over (yi, ˆyi):

Conv -Acc = TP + TN TP + TN + FP + FN ,

Conv -F1 = 2 TP 2 TP + FP + FN .

(6) Both metrics target the high-risk public-to-private migration that a live-stream simulator must capture, rather than isolated step-wise action matches. 

LLM-judge scores. We additionally employ an LLM judge to score structured per-step traces on a 0–100 scale along three axes. Align measures whether the simulated action sequence aligns with the real trajectory and visible session evidence: action-level matches as well as semantically equiv-alent surrogates, e.g., short affirmations such as “1”, or heart emojis acting as likes) both count as aligned. Consist measures whether the trace is in-ternally coherent, e.g., the simulated user follows a streamer only after a gradual trust-building process, rather than flipping to follow abruptly while still in a skeptical state. Plaus measures whether the simulated comments and bullet-screen texts read as a real live-stream viewer rather than a mechan-ical policy, and is reported only over trajectories that contain simulated free-text utterances. The judge is given the user hypothesis, the confirmed patch summary, and a step-by-step GT action vs. SIM action pairing, and returns a JSON record with the three scores together with one-line rationales. The reported score is the average over evaluated trajectories. LLM-Judge Prompt                 

> # Roles.
> You are an evaluator for live-stream user simulation. Given the user profile, patch, and step-by-step GT vs. SIM action pairing, judge whether the agent repro-duces the real user’s behavior and attitude. Evaluate one user–session sample at a time and output JSON only.
> # Scoring fields.
> All scores lie in [0 ,100] . Output a single JSON object with no markdown or commentary. •align_score :whether the simulated actions match the real ones; for comments, whether the content is roughly equivalent. Non-identical ac-tions with the same intent still count as aligned, e.g., “1” or heart emojis used by viewers to signal endorsement are treated as equivalent to a like .•consist_score : whether the trace is internally coherent, e.g., a follow emerges only after a trust-building process, rather than an abrupt flip while still in a skeptical state. •plaus_score : whether the simulated comments / bullet-screen texts read as natural human utter-ances; null if no simulated text exists.
> # Input.
> User profile: {user_profile_text} Patch: {patch_text} Action pairs: {action_pair_lines} // each line: "GT action = <real> VS SIM action = <simulated>"
> # Output format.
> {"align_score": 0-100, "consist_score": 0-100, "plaus_score": 0-100 or null, "align_analysis": "...", "consist_analysis": "...", "plaus_analysis": "..." }

B Additional Experimental Results 

B.1 RBHS Robustness Study 

Table 5 evaluates whether the reflective shaping loop of RBHS transfers beyond the Doubao back-bones used in the main experiments. We ap-ply the identical trajectory-grounded protocol to eight backbones spanning open and closed fami-lies, small and large scales, on a random 10% test subset. All metrics follow the definitions in Sec-tion 3.1. 

RBHS generalizes across backbones. A-JSD and Tr-JSD drop on every backbone, and all three judge axes improve on every backbone, regard-less of family or scale. The gains come from the same mechanism in every case. Patches act on the user’s cognitive state (interest, trust, desire, fa-tigue) rather than directly biasing which action to-ken to emit. The shaping signal therefore transfers through whatever action head the backbone hap-pens to expose. What RBHS aligns is the agent’s 

perception of and reaction to room stimuli . This is the substance of the simulation we care about in live-stream scenarios: fraud-prone users do not become victims because their next click matches a log, but because their trust, desire, and suspicion evolve the way real users’ do under the same on-stage pressure. Exact action match (HIT) therefore moves the least across the table, since a state-level prior cannot, and is not designed to, collapse the argmax of a frozen action head. 

Weaker backbones benefit more, and the gap to strong backbones narrows after RBHS. Sort-ing backbones by base Consist, the bottom half (GPT-4o-mini 55 .61 , Qwen2.5-7B 57 .47 , GPT-5.4-mini 58 .24 , Doubao-1.5-pro 60 .54 ) gains +13 .9

Consist on average, while the top half gains +11 .5.The same pattern holds on Conv-F1: GPT-4o-mini (+5 .01 ), Doubao-1.8 ( +4 .46 ), and Qwen2.5-7B (+3 .99 ) lead the gains, all starting from below-median base. After shaping, the inter-backbone spread on Consist shrinks from 11 .2 to 7.6 points. RBHS therefore behaves as an interpretive scaffold :weaker backbones underuse the live-room evidence on their own, and benefit disproportionately from being told which evidence to ground state shifts on. We further conjecture that the two ends fail for different reasons. Small backbones may be bottlenecked by under-perception of on-stage stim-uli, while large backbones may be bottlenecked (also trapped in environment perception but less than small ones) by a built-in resistance to risk-relevant actions such as follow, dm, and join-group, especially under high-risk suspicious cues. In this view, simulating an easily-deceived victim could favor a small backbone shaped by RBHS, where the scaffold plausibly fills the perception gap with-out inheriting the safety prior that suppresses the very behavior we need to study. 

B.2 Fine-Grained LLM Behavior Analysis 

For each backbone, we compare the action distribution produced by the initial hypothe-sis against the one produced after applying its environment-behavior patches, both evaluated un-der the trajectory-grounded protocol. For each backbone, we examine the post-RBHS action distribution and, where the basic baseline is available, the shift from initial hypothesis to post-RBHS. 

Default shapes persist under RBHS. Fig. 5 shows that backbones span a wide spectrum of default action mixes, and the column merged with patches preserves the spectrum. gpt4omini and Qwen series sit at the comment-collapse end (comment 91 .7% and 86 .4% ) and thus achieves a high HIT score. DeepSeek-v3, DeepSeek-v4 and Doubao 1.5 pro form a balanced middle ( ∼ 60% 

comment, 25 –33% like). GPT- 5.4- mini sits at the conversion-eager end (follow plus join-group 

22 .4% → 19 .7% , the highest in the table). RBHS smooths these mixes indirectly by building the agent’s capability of capturing different environ-ment signals, which is consistent with the F1 read-ing that the shaping signal acts on the cognitive state rather than the action argmax. 

B.3 Why is Trajectory-grounded Protocol 

This protocol is teacher-forced in the history chan-nel but free in the current decision. We adopt it for two reasons. A naive free rollout under real logs creates off-policy inconsistency: once the sim-Table 5: Robustness of RBHS across LLM backbones, evaluated under the trajectory-grounded protocol on a 10% test subset.                                                                                                                                                     

> Models Micro Macro LLM-Judge HIT A-JSD ↓Tr-JSD ↓Conv-Acc Conv-F1 Align Consist Plaus Qwen2.5 7B 50.84 0.1936 0.3638 70.51 57.74 47.84 57.47 70.71
> + RBHS (∆)50.76 0.1890 0.3556 70.19 61.73 56.43 69.21 73.14 Qwen2.5 32B 51.90 0.1043 0.2270 71.79 46.99 51.38 61.57 73.10
> + RBHS (∆)52.67 0.0859 0.2155 72.76 48.48 61.36 74.09 75.79 Doubao 1.5 pro 43.14 0.0722 0.2007 71.15 60.53 52.79 60.54 73.23
> + RBHS (∆)46.45 0.0629 0.1602 74.04 60.87 59.89 72.28 75.67 Doubao 1.8 48.95 0.0754 0.1794 72.12 50.29 57.95 66.41 75.56
> + RBHS (∆)50.20 0.0496 0.1521 74.04 54.75 66.06 76.76 76.23 GPT-4o-mini 54.15 0.1393 0.2725 67.63 26.28 43.81 55.61 66.86
> + RBHS (∆)53.64 0.1369 0.2709 67.63 31.29 51.97 70.32 72.34 GPT-5.4-mini 42.60 0.0987 0.2124 72.44 62.28 51.03 58.24 72.30
> + RBHS (∆)45.39 0.0828 0.1913 74.04 64.63 62.02 73.81 75.24 Deepseek-v3.2 48.27 0.0808 0.1992 75.96 63.41 51.57 63.08 74.61
> + RBHS (∆)50.98 0.0560 0.1500 73.40 61.75 61.99 74.78 76.67
> Deepseek-v4-flash 49.02 0.0360 0.1217 70.83 49.16 53.64 62.37 74.76
> + RBHS (∆)51.01 0.0349 0.1193 71.47 50.28 63.88 75.35 75.99

Table 6: Rollout tests on Doubao1.8 backbone on 10% test datasets                              

> Models Micro Macro LLM-Judge HIT A-JSD ↓Tr-JSD ↓Conv-Acc Conv-F1 Align Consist Plaus Doubao 1.8 53.01 0.0570 0.3660 66.35 7.08 42.52 49.01 61.84
> + RBHS (∆)51.47 0.0334 0.2628 72.44 48.81 56.73 72.05 71.89

ulated user deviates from the real action, the static streamer utterances and audience reactions are no longer responses to the new behavior, the inter-action history becomes incoherent, and state drift compounds. A typical failure mode is a user agent that asks a question, receives no reply in the static log, and spirals into a low-trust question loop as interest and trust decay round after round. Tra-jectory grounding sidesteps this without paying for a multi-agent environment, and it also matches the deployment scenario for online user protection, where the platform observes past actions in real time and must predict the next risky transition be-fore it happens. Table 6 quantifies the cost of dropping the tra-jectory grounding on the Doubao 1.8 backbone. Without it, Conv-F1 on the basic hypothesis col-lapses to 7.08 , far lower than the Conv-F1 the same backbone reaches under the trajectory-grounded protocol on the full test set. This is the direct fin-gerprint of the skeptical dilemma sketched above. 

Apparent RBHS gains are inflated under free rollout. RBHS still improves every distributional, conversion, and judge metric in this harder set-ting, which attests to its robustness: by shaping per-ception and state transitions, RBHS lets the agent keep updating its stance even when no reply ar-rives. The absolute magnitudes, however, are not comparable across protocols, since the free-rollout baseline starts from a near-degenerate 7.08 . Report-ing RBHS on a free-rollout setup would therefore overstate its gain on a baseline no realistic deploy-ment would accept, and we instead measure RBHS against the trajectory-grounded baseline through-out the paper. 

B.4 Sensitivity to Reflection Loop Round 

We further analyze the sensitivity of RBHS to the number of reflection rounds on a 10% user sub-set with five repeats. As shown in Table 7, direct patching (Round=0) already captures most of the improvement over the basic hypothesis, while sub-sequent rounds continue to improve fidelity at a smaller margin. Round 3 achieves the best over-Table 7: Performance across different reflection rounds. Results are reported as mean ± standard deviation.                                                                                                     

> Models ActJ ↑A-JSD ↓Tr-JSD ↓Conv-Acc ↑Conv-F1 ↑
> Basic 0.4919 ±0.0054 0.0676 ±0.0009 0.1692 ±0.0030 0.7295 ±0.0089 0.5115 ±0.0175 Round=0 (Direct) 0.5036 ±0.0034 0.0514 ±0.0038 0.1457 ±0.0085 0.7430 ±0.0083 0.5563 ±0.0250 Round=1 0.5118 ±0.0035 0.0531 ±0.0047 0.1514 ±0.0092 0.7442 ±0.0089 0.5619 ±0.0193
> Round=2 0.5084 ±0.0029 0.0505 ±0.0032 0.1459 ±0.0093 0.7436 ±0.0155 0.5552 ±0.0320 Round=3 0.5125 ±0.0037 0.0462 ±0.0027 0.1424 ±0.0074 0.7449 ±0.0110 0.5567 ±0.0198 Round=4 0.5114 ±0.0033 0.0465 ±0.0028 0.1464 ±0.0072 0.7391 ±0.0100 0.5375 ±0.0268

all trade-off, with the highest ActJ and the lowest A-JSD and Tr-JSD. A fourth round provides no further benefit and slightly reduces Conv-Acc and F1, indicating mild over-refinement. We define the loop as converged when re-probing the patched hy-pothesis surfaces no further mismatches, and thus no new patches, a state largely reached by Round 3. We therefore use three rounds as an empirical cost-fidelity trade-off. 

C Discussion 

C.1 Baseline Setting 

Most agent-based social simulation works are built around a specific scenario, with task-specific envi-ronments and metrics, so their simulators are not transferable. Reflection methods likewise differ in their tasks and feedback signals. Rather than treating them as black boxes under mismatched assumptions, we re-instantiate their core mecha-nisms within our setting: Table 2 gives a controlled, mechanism-level comparison of direct patching, it-erative reflection, and collective reusable memory, isolating each RBHS component’s contribution. 

C.2 Incremental Maintenance 

While RBHS was not originally designed for the incremental setting, it naturally supports it. Anew session is converted into probes and evalu-ated against the current hypothesis and patch set; the resulting mismatches are then passed to RBHS, which produces incremental patches, each tagged 

new or replace (with the superseded patch id). New patches are added as active rules and ineffective old ones are retired. Since only this delta is recomputed rather than the full history, updates are lightweight and can be applied continuously as sessions stream in. 

C.3 Future Work Deployment Scenarios 

For scalability, RBHS is especially suited to sce-narios where user actions are temporally shaped by observable environmental stimuli. Beyond live-streaming simulation, RBHS can be extended to user modeling on online communities, interactive social platforms and e-commerce live streaming settings where behavioral tendency is likewise in-fluenced by the environment. LiveSim also enables several downstream uses beyond simulation analysis. First, it can serve as an interactive post-training environment for inter-vention agents: unlike static logs that only record past outcomes, it offers counterfactual trajectories from which an agent obtains reward signals, both positive (e.g., intervention success rate) and nega-tive (e.g., disruption felt by users), and learns more effective protection policies. Second, it can act as a data synthesizer for rare or emerging risks: given a raw case or a summarized fraud path, LiveSim instantiates streamer and shill agents to generate di-verse risk trajectories that help risk-control models capture the commonality of scarce patterns. Third, its trajectories and latent-state signals can train a real-time audience-monitoring agent that senses the overall audience state and locates susceptible risk fragments, rather than tracking every viewer individually. Realizing these uses at deployment scale requires further validation of fidelity, which we leave to future work. 

AI Assistance Statement 

The authors used AI-based writing assistants only for language polishing, grammar checking, and improving clarity. All research ideas, experimental design, analyses, and final manuscript content were reviewed and verified by the authors. Figure 5: Action distribution comparison across backbone models.